# A list of general suggestions to consider when you transition to Engineering Manager

- **Stop coding as soon as possible** - I found that I would often fall back to "what I know" and dive into code.  This feels like the best way to help your team sometimes but ultimately you are taking time away from developing the other necessary skills you need.
- **Start coding again when you're feeling more comfortable** - this should be on your own time mostly.  Coding is a marketable skill.  If you ever find  yourself looking for a job you'll want to be at least marginally up-to-date
- **Find a time-managment system that works for you** -  and be merciless about what is the most important thing for you to be working on - unlike being an IC there is no task board for managers.  What you should be doing at any given time is soley at your discretion. It can be challenging to know which direction you should be looking at any given time. My [Daily Framework](daily_framework.md) can help.
- **Do some work on yourself** - I believe everyone could do some introspective work on themselves.  Being a manager is about working with *people* this can be a shock to the system if you're used to working with code.  It really helps to connect with people if you're able to connect with yourself. So, seek a counselor, coach, therapist, or support group and work on yourself!
- **Do a LOT of listening, especially at first** - You might come into this role with a lot of ideas on what should be done and how your team should do it.  But trust is very important and you'll want to gain the trust of your team before you start making changes.  So listen more than you talk and take everyone's feedback into consideration.  Make compromises where necessary and keep people feeling engaged and not dictated to.
- **Set goals for yourself quarterly** - this can help you stay focused on the areas that you need to improve on.  It's very easy to fall into the trap of focusing your energy in places where you're already comfortable.
